Hi this is Abishek Muthian, Today
I'm going to talk about Bone Health.
When I was 32 years of age I
was told that my bones were
like that of an 80 year old due to a
health disorder called Osteoporosis.
Osteoporosis can make our bones
fragile and likely to break.
1 in 3 women over the age
of 50 years and 1 in 5 men
will experience osteoporotic
fractures in their lifetime.
It is likely that your parents and grand
parents are already suffering from osteoporosis.
Osteoporosis is identified using a Bone Mineral
Density(BMD) scan which gives scores for our bone
density and is compared with the known scores
from the healthy individuals of same age.
I was told that these known
scores does not include all races,
ethinicities and are generally unreliable
for those with pre-existing diseases.
This makes it difficult for providing
healthcare, Even more so for outliers like me.
I'm attempting to change that
with Bone Health Tracker.
All we need to do is upload the assessment section
from our BMD report. It generally looks like this.
Once we upload, The report is classified using
Machine Learning. Bone Health Tracker displays
the report, A skeleton visualization marking
organs from the assessment with different
colors to show the findings and A chart
to show the progress of our treatment.
I will add few more reports to
show the usefulness of the chart.
The health care provider would have to compare
previous BMD reports every year to see if the
treatment is working, This will save lot of time
for them and give better understanding to us.
We can choose to submit our report data
without any personal information for
researchers to analyze the Bone Mineral Density
data from different ethnicities
to develop better healthcare.
With 1 in 6 people in the world expected to be
above age 65 by 2050, We need more investment
in understanding the bone health and coming up
with better treatments for bone health diseases.
Thank you for watching.